Oh, the day I arrived. And also what you got is a
little tackle box. And in this tackle box you had a
set of instruments and you had your French curves
and your triangles and your engineering scale and
your architect scale and all that went in there.
And of course the set of pencils that you used it
for. And Cliff Ransdell was my my second term
engineering design engineering drawing
describe him as a faculty as a teacher faculty
member oh he was very nice and leisurely just like
you know knew him too he's very kind and in fact all
our teachers were i think bfk mullins i guess he was
gone but he was one of the those profs there too did
y'all have a nickname for rangel I don't remember
it. I don't remember one. No? Economics. Do you
remember who taught economics? No. Al Chalk
wasn't here yet, was he? Who's that? Al Chalk.
Chalk kind of was here. I don't know that I had him,
though. Econ 203. Now, I presume that your slide
rule and that tackle box was kind of the signature
of an engineering student. Oh, sure. The slide
rule was on a thing. I've got my slide rule in there
now. Do you remember what it cost? I don't know, $4
or $5, I guess. Do you remember in general what that
first year cost? What your tuition was? You mean
all of our books and everything? Oh, I can't say
over $30 or $40.
We also bought a drawing board with a handle on it.
And I think my mama might have made a case to put that
thing in, a canvas or a friend did. So we'd have that
drawing board too you had to haul along,
particularly back in the dorm because you did a lot
of work. My roommate Bill Atkinson finished
second in his class. He won the freshman math
contest and won the national lettering contest,
and he worked hard at it. But his sophomore year, he
only got second place. Spencer Bain? Spencer got
second place in the freshman contest, but he
always throws it up to me that he got first in the
sophomore class, and my roommate only got second.
As you think back about it, Which of the courses
consumed the greatest amount of time? Well,
electrical engineering courses did. Oh, yeah.
You had a lab for each one, for one thing. And you
students were very much profession-oriented.
You were really serious about becoming
electrical engineers. Oh, I think so. I don't know
that I even should have taken electrical
engineering, but I was I'm not in a dilemma. My
sophomore year, we had Bill Atkinson in my squad,
and the other guy was equally as smart, and they'd
run experiments. They didn't need to. They were
both amateur radio operators, and a lot of the
double E's were hams, and that's how they got
interested in electrical engineering. So I
didn't learn as much as they did, and they didn't
need it either anyway, like I did. Now, you were
saying that the primary emphasis was then power.
Did you hear anything before you left for military
service? Did you hear anything that hinted about
the coming events in electronics? Well, yes, of
course. We still had just the vacuum tube, so the
applications were fairly limited. Field theory
was more and more important. And what happened in
World War II, the U.S. Army and so forth did a good
job of recruiting people for good discipline. So
many telephone company men got in. They gave them
direct commission to teach. Well, anyway, my
roommate and these other two that went in the Navy,
they wound up at Harvard and MIT in radar. In other
words, they got the theoretical thing and How they
picked these out, I don't know. Rodenberger, you
know, I don't mean Rodenberger. His wife is a
history prof. Underberger. Underberger.
Underberger was a physics major, and they also
sent him to MIT and to Harvard because of the need
for this sort of thing. So they recruited well in
that respect. All right, let's see. Other events.
What did the YMCA offer? What did a student do at the
YMCA? Well, of course, freshmen couldn't go in
there. The bowling alley was in the basement.
Underneath the bowling alley was a swimming pool.
And when they built PL downs, they covered it over.
And the only reason you could go into the YMCA is go
to church on Sunday. But as a sophomore, you didn't
go to YMCA? Well, you could go in there. I bowled in
there somewhat. But one thing that ended me is a
couple of kids in there could go in there and play
ping pong, and I couldn't. Well, it was Jim Cashin
and Red Cashin because their daddy was the YMCA
secretary. And they tells about how they swam in
that pool. Wow. Now, they lived on campus. They
lived on campus. And they were, by your standards,
they were little boys, weren't they? Yeah, they
were. See, they're five, seven years younger. Jim
was a quarterback after World War II. He was about
four or five years younger than Red, about six. All
right, I'm going to interview Red on Monday
morning. Describe for me your impression of Red
and Jim as little boys. Oh, I can't remember them
other than I just remember them playing in there
and find out who they were and wondering how in the
world they would get in there to play. So you don't
remember any mischief? No, not really.
Incidentally, with WTAW,
the transmitter was in Bolton Hall and the studio
was on the second floor of the YMCA. And they had
antennas on each of those buildings with the wire
in between. And Dutch Dillingham He got pictures
of him way back there in the 30s, and of course the
first broadcast of a game was on WTAW and this sort
of thing. All right, now it was operated in that
day, operated by A&M, by the electrical
engineering department? No, by students, so
N-double-E. But it was, of course, a university
station even then. What kind of programs did they
have? I can't remember, really. They just played
music as far as I know. Did they do football games in
your day? Or did Kern Tips do them? Oh, Kern Tips did
them. Oh, yeah. WTAW has gotten away from that
then. Oh, yeah. Umbel Oil and Refining Company.
What kind of music did they play? I can't remember
that either, but I'm sure it's the popular music of
the day. Glenn Miller and Harry James and people
like that. All right, let's see. Guyon Hall was the
auditorium. Tell me about, describe some events
you remember occurring in Guyon Hall. Well, of
course, at that time, we had Math 101. They all took
the math final exam at the same time. So they would
put us all in Gine Hall, and this was even true when I
came back and started teaching in 56. They still
had exams, a common exam for one course, and they'd
spread us out in Gine Hall. And, of course, we had
the Holy Week or Religious Emphasis Week in the
spring, and so each day you would have a program
there. And they would dismass classes so you could
go to these. Was there good turnout for those? Oh, I
think there was, yeah. I don't know that I ever
went. I grew up a Christian scientist. And we had
our little services up on the second floor of the
YMCA. How many attended that Christian Science?
Oh, I'd say maybe five or ten. And one of the
students was the reader. Were there any other, and
let me call that as a non-mainline denomination,
were there any other religious groups that had
meetings here that weren't mainline
denominations? I don't think so. Oh, I can't
remember. The Presbyterians met in the YMCA. The
Methodists had a kind of an old barn up there where
they are now. The Catholics have an old chapel on
the corner. And that was it. Uh-huh. Do you
remember any Jewish students when you were here?
Well, of course, the Hillel Foundation was quite
strong. And we, I think, had a real good
representation of the Jewish community and they
were right into the rest of us. I can't say where and
when they went. Do you remember, do you have any
recollection, what was the respect and or
toleration of the different religious groups?
How did Aggies feel about someone else's
religious affiliation? Oh, I don't think we had
any prejudices at all particularly. We weren't
very religious, most of us, I would say. Were there
some Hispanic students in your, in your? Yeah, we
had three or four, yeah. And did they have certain
special nicknames? No, they were just one of the,
one of the students, yeah. What about some
international students? Were there some from
other countries? Very little, I don't know. The
Zuniga, he was from, the way to Laredo, and I got him
to come back after 50 years, and De La Chica, I don't
know, he stayed around for a while, yeah, but I,
other than that, Martinez was a sophomore, we
didn't like him, and his roommate was Jewish, but
that didn't make any difference, yeah. Let's see,
do you remember any notable celebrities that came
to the campus in those pre-war years? Well, of
course, the one we had, we've never been licked
while you had all that, Wallace Berry Jr. and Jim
Mitchell, or what is his name, Mitchum? Robert
Mitchum. Robert Mitchum, and then the third one
and the two women. I've got the tape of the thing,
too, and we were in that thing, of course. Describe
the campus excitement about that. When we had them
here, we spent a lot of time out on the drill field,
just more or less having reviews and this sort of
thing. And it hardly got into the film at all. But
the hero in this thing was in disgrace, kind of. And
in my outfit, we marched right up a military walk up
into Sabisa Dining Hall. And so... And it was my
outfit that tripped him as he went up the stairs.
What happened was he had, this hero had grown up in
Japan and he came to school late and all that stuff
and he finally got with it and that sort of thing and
his senior year he has boots and this sort of thing.
But he kind of defended the Japanese because he had
lived there. Well, this made him, of course,
Persia non grata and all that stuff. It didn't have
anything to do with him. As I say, they tripped him
as he went up the steps. And then he went on over to
Japan and became a Japanese broadcaster and so
forth. And he got on an aircraft carrier, and he sat
behind the pilots. And he heard his roommate,
which was Wallace Berry Jr., told him he was. And so
he choked the Japanese pilot and caused the plane
to crash into the Japanese carrier. And so they
awarded him the Congressional Medal of Honor, and
he had his boots at my coffee, and that sort of
thing. That was really the corniest movie I think I
ever saw. Where did all those movie stars stay?
when they were here? I guess they put them up in the
Aggieland Inn, right across the street from Sbisa
Hall. They were here weeks? Were they here weeks?
Months? Oh, they didn't stay very long. No, just
the external scenes and also in the Sbisa Hall
where they danced, but all of the indoor scenes
were back in Hollywood. And even the stuff where he
got onto the horse drone, field artillery, they
were all back in Hollywood. Obviously, they
weren't here from the terrain they were in. Other
celebrities before you went away to the war, did
the big bands come here and play during that? Oh,
definitely. Oh, yeah. And of course, what you had
in the spring, you had a regimental ball on Friday
night where a certain regiment had their ball, and
then Saturday night was the core dance. So they
played for both nights. And we had Glenn Miller and
Harry James and any number of the big-name
orchestras came here. And these were in Sabisa? In
Sabisa, the main dining hall of Sabisa. That's the
only place there. I think we might have had one over
here in the new area on one side of the dining hall at
the core area. Did you have a date come down? Oh,
yeah, I had a date, and I went and got a car, got
folks' car that weekend, so I went up and brought my
date back, and also a friend in the outfit, his
date, and I also brought back her mother. I didn't
intend for that to happen, but we put them up over in
blue bonnet cores. You know, the building where
the restaurant is right next to Jones Pharmacy
now. It's a cottage type, so that's where I had to
put them up. How was a young woman treated at an
Aggie dance? At a dance? You couldn't dance with
her. I mean, always, if somebody was always
cutting in, you'd bring your date, and you didn't
get to dance with her very much because most of us
didn't have dates. And so here we were, and so you
kept cutting in all the time. You could never dance
a whole night, a whole date, a whole dance with one
person. But were the girls treated like royalty?
Oh, I think so. And of course, we vacated one of the
dormitories, and they stayed in that dormitory,
and we found out where we could stay anywhere on the
campus. You didn't have enough room. Some of them
stayed off campus in in the faculty housing and on
campus and so forth. But by and large, that's where
we had to put them up.
Was there much drinking at an Aggie dance? No, not
at all. I don't believe at all. You might have a
drink ahead of time, There were no tables around.
You had chairs all the way around. Strictly
dancing. We had lots of chaperones, the faculty
wives and so forth. And every student was in
uniform? Yeah. The only people that didn't wear a
uniform were graduate students. And they didn't
participate in that. We didn't have many graduate
students either. And also, a lot of them wore
uniform. They had to, anyway. So we didn't have
much graduate school. Were there any, talking
about celebrities coming, were there any
important national leaders who came before you
went away to the war? Well, of course, President
Roosevelt came. Did he? During the war, yeah. Did
you get to see him? I just remember he was here. I'm
not sure what year it was. I do remember Dutch
Dillingham saying that he got a really good PA
system for him when he was out on Carl Field. And
then he said Roosevelt knew exactly how to handle
it, but, you know, keeping feedback, he'd say
something, take it out of the way. He knew not to get
the feedback. So he was a very accomplished
speaker.
Describe in those pre-war, pre-going away to the
war year, describe the routine of a football, home
football Saturday. What time did things begin?
Well, you had midnight yell practice the night
before, but the games were all in the afternoon.
Where was midnight yell practice held? Midnight
yell practice, was that held at the Y? That was in
front of the YMCA. Later on, they moved it over in
front of Goodman Hall. It had more room there. But
as soon as the meal was over, we went over to the
stadium. The freshmen sat in front, sophomores,
juniors, and seniors. We didn't march in. You're
talking about the noon meal. After the noon meal,
we immediately went over and got us a good seat. And
so we didn't march in or anything at all like that.
And after the game was over, if we won, we went back
over to the YMCA and had another yell practice. And
did y'all throw the yell-eaters in the? No. That
wasn't? No, no, that wasn't in it at all. Did
anybody ever tear down a goal post? Never did that.
Oh, no, they didn't feel like that. And did you ever
have, did you have many dates for a football game? I
only had, that date I was, and then also I had a girl
who got over here from Austin, And so we took them to
the dance, and they wanted to go out to Uncle Ed's.
So we took them out to Uncle Ed Hard Liquor. You
familiar with it? Now, that was on Welborn Road?
Welborn Road, just about where
Luther hits it. It's kind of on the corner there.
It's still there. It's a little Chinese place, one
story, about a half mile south of George Bush. So we
took them out there because, you know, it was
famous from a song, and it was a mess. It really was
awful. The gals didn't like it. They wanted to go,
though. They knew about it, so we took them out
there. Now, beer, was beer available there? Was
what now? Beer. Was there any beer and hard
liquors? Oh, yeah, beer. Beer was the only thing
you could get in the county. But not whiskey? No, no
hard liquor. No, no, no. There was hard liquor out
there, but no whiskey. And did he serve food? I
think so. What was it? We just went out there to
drink beer, though. The girls didn't drink beer.
About how many people could Mr. Hard Liquor's
place accommodate? Hard liquor? Not very many. I
would say you couldn't get 100 people in there,
even that much. Was it ever rowdy? Routy over what?
Was it ever rowdy? Were there fights? Not at all. I
didn't really go out there, but it was really just a
place to drink beer. Because I've heard mention of
Uncle Ed's, a great day. Yeah, drank our troubles
away. Let's see, midnight yell practice, were
there silver taps? Oh yeah, we had those once,
twice a year, but we didn't kill many Aggies. Do you
remember your feelings as you went to your first
Silver Taps events? Oh, I can certainly remember
it, and it was a very solemn occasion. That's about
all I could say about it. Was Aggie, was Muster held
before the war that you remember? Yes, it was. Of
course, it became famous during the war, but I...
Where was it held? I can't remember where the
muster was held.
Let's see, after that first summer, did you have a
job at home? For the summer, I got a job for a quarter
of an hour out of Seville. They were building a new
federal prison out there, and I had a friend who
helped me get the job. So we put together storage
cabinets at 25 cents an hour. That's about the only
job I had that summer. And that didn't relate much
to electrical engineering? No, it sure didn't.
There's hardly any jobs like that available at
all. That was the summer of 40. Of 40. What about the
next summer? The next summer, I went to summer
school one of the times, yeah. Describe
the community of College Station. What was there
around the campus then, housing and so forth? How
big was the—? Well, of course, when you crossed the
stop sign up here, Park Place, There was nothing
this side of it, even when we moved here back in
1956. It stopped at Park Place, except for the
Knoll out there. And I really can't remember much
of all the houses on campus. I remember that,
the PMS&T, and of course Gilchrist was living in
that house. It's a brick house, one story. He was
there. He was dean of engineering, man. That's
about all I can remember. I think the student
engineer's council would go over there and meet
with him once in a while. And the Northgate area,
what was there? Well, of course, on each of the
corners was a drug store, and there were two or
three barber shops. Lupo was kind of down towards
the campus, and that was about all there was to it.
That first block was all there was to the north gate
of the business district. The Baptists, I don't
know when they built their church. The Church of
Christ was there, and as I say, the Methodist
church was just a big old barn. The railroad
station I know was active. Where was the bus
station? The what now? The bus station. Where did
you catch the bus? Well, of course, the bus came up
to the Aggieland Inn. The Greyhound bus drove up
there to pick up passengers. So that's where you
came from. And the post office, where did you get
your mail? Okay, where the Trigon is, and this side
of it is now that utility building. When they built
the new dorms, they put a post office there, too.
And they had a little confectionery, too, so
that's where our post office boxes were. And if you
wanted to buy a Coca-Cola or anything like that
during the day, where would you go? You'd have to go
over there. That was the nearest place. Of course,
the upperclassmen had concessions in the dorm,
too. They had something to sell, I can't remember.
Do you remember where you were when you heard the
news of Pearl Harbor? I was at Guyon Hall watching a
movie. And when we came out, we got the news. How
did, did a friend tell you? Word of mouth. We got
around, you know. And what did you and your friends
do then? Well, we had, one of our friends, we had a
kind of a dormitory communication system. could
get on the radio, and he got on there like he was a
Japanese and started talking about what was
happening and all that stuff. So that was the main
thing. Of course, we really realized what was
happening. Did you and your buddies know where
Pearl Harbor was? Oh, I don't know. Hawaiian
Island, that's all. I was a sixth grader, and I
remember we had to have it explained to us, of
course. were there any other, in those first three
years here, were there any other events that kind
of stopped you and your buddies in your tracks?
After Pearl Harbor? No, I don't really believe we
were, because D-Day, of course, was after we had
all gone, just following it, the progress of it, we
And I know for me, the death of Franklin Roosevelt
in 1944.
Let's see. We're still talking about the pre-war
years. The average student, was there much beer
consumed by students then? There was a lot of
liquor consumed on the dorms. You know, they'd
bring a bottle in and drink and this sort of thing. A
fair amount of that. My first drink, I went over to
White Way Cafe, which is about where 7-Eleven is,
and that's where I got my first beer. And then we
walked back over to the camp and had a few beers, and
that was it. Did many students get drunk? No, I
don't think a whole lot of it. All right, so beer,
whiskey. What about tobacco? Did many students
smoke? Oh, we had plenty of smokers. Oh, yeah. And
chewing tobacco? I don't think so, no. Snuff? I
can't remember that they had that at all. Did you
and your buddies know of any other indulgences? I
don't believe there's anything at all in the way of
drugs or anything like that. Did you even know the
words? No, I don't really think we did. Marijuana
we called Mary Jane. When I was a kid in the park in
Dallas, you'd talk about Mary Jane a little bit.
Did you ever see any Mary Jane? No. That's what they
called marijuana, though.
Let's see. Court trip. Describe court trip during
those falls. Well, of course, if it was in Houston,
we'd hitchhike and spend the night before in a
downtown hotel, and then for the rice game, of
course, we would march in Houston. I do remember
staying in the Cotton Hotel and getting pretty
drunk there, you know, away from home and this sort
of thing. Of course, Dallas and Fort Worth was my
home in Dallas, so we'd just stay at home. Did you
have a few guests at your house then? No, not
really, uh-uh. Either Dallas or Fort Worth would
be one of the other games for SSMU or TCU. And Waco,
we didn't march in Waco. You know why we no longer
marched in Waco, yeah. Let's see. There was a court
trip to Austin. In Austin, we were. And I had a high
school roommate in the dorm there, so I slept on the
floor. And, of course, after that, 40 game and we
lost, we were going to spend the night. But after we
lost, we got out of town. I got a high school
classmate and we just high-tailed up at Waco and
stopped for supper. And then a goofy guy, he got
over on the left-hand side, a car came the other way
and hit us on the rear. And I was in the back rear seat
and we went over and turned over on our side and And
this car that came behind us got over on the other
side and the guy was killed in that thing. We
hauled, they hauled the car in and we had to
hitchhike home. Back to that 1940 game in Austin. I
described the feelings of the Aggies in the... We
just stood up in the grand and cried. Like babies,
no fooling. We were going to the Rose Bowl. He
already had the invitations. A number of years
later, old Homer Norton's daughter was with us on
the way to Mexico with my wife for Spanish, and we
drove by there, and I told her, I said, this is the
saddest place your daddy ever experienced in that
stadium there. Of course, he had that place across
the street and his wife. Did you students have any
impression of him in his coaching days here? Homer
Norton? Oh, not particularly. I guess he's kind of
autocratic, I guess. I can't say more than that.
Like one of the things I learned from Barney Welch
that causes me, in hindsight, to respect Coach
Norton, Barney said that Coach Norton promised
every single athlete that had a scholarship who
went away to the war, when you come back, you will
have a scholarship. And he said what hurt was that
he kept his word And some of those were not that good
as athletes four years later. But he kept his word.
Barney was pretty good.